Dear Dr Das,

Please allow us to sincerely apologise for the long delay in sending decision on your manuscript titled "Soil Carbon Sequestration: A Mechanistic Perspective on Limitations and Future Possibilities". It has now been seen by 3 reviewers, whose comments are appended below. You will see that they find your work of some potential interest. However, they have raised quite substantial concerns that must be addressed. In light of these comments, we cannot accept the manuscript for publication, but would be interested in considering a revised version that fully addresses these serious concerns.

We hope you will find the reviewers' comments useful as you decide how to proceed. Should additional work allow you to address these criticisms, we would be happy to look at a substantially revised manuscript. If you choose to take up this option, please either highlight all changes in the manuscript text file, or provide a list of the changes to the manuscript with your responses to the reviewers.

Please ensure that the revised manuscript addresses the following editorial thresholds:
**Please substantially shorten section 2 "Limitations" to no more than 800 to 1000 words overall, and focus on section 3 "Possibilities and Opportunities" as this section carries the most insight. Following these changes, we suggest that the piece may better fit as a "Perspective" article rather than a "Review".
** Please update and shorten the reference list to ensure a focus on more recent work. We note that there are very few references from 2024.

When resubmitting, please provide a point-by-point response to the reviewers’ comments. Please submit your responses as a separate file, distinct from your cover letter where you can add responses to the Editors’ comments that you do not want to be made available to the reviewers. Word files are preferred. We recommend that any figures, tables or graphs that are included in the response to reviewers are also included in the main article or Supplementary Information.

Please bear in mind that we will be reluctant to approach the reviewers again in the absence of substantial revisions.

If the revision process takes significantly longer than three months, we will be happy to reconsider your paper at a later date, as long as nothing similar has been accepted for publication at Communications Earth & Environment or published elsewhere in the meantime.

We are committed to providing a fair and constructive peer-review process. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you wish to discuss the revision in more detail.

Please use the following link to submit your revised manuscript, point-by-point response to the reviewers’ comments with a list of your changes to the manuscript text (which should be in a separate document to any cover letter), a tracked-changes version of the manuscript (as a PDF file) and any completed checklist:

https://mts-commsenv.nature.com/cgi-bin/main.plex?el=A1DE5DDU3A1WBW4I6A9ftdwK6i21WZEkJt7wA1dfYhwZ

** This url links to your confidential home page and associated information about manuscripts you may have submitted or be reviewing for us. If you wish to forward this email to co-authors, please delete the link to your homepage first **

Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions or would like to discuss the required revisions further. Thank you for the opportunity to review your work.


Best regards,
