Dear Dr Das,

Your revised manuscript titled "Soil Carbon Sequestration: A Mechanistic Perspective on Limitations and Future Possibilities" has now been seen by 3 reviewers, whose comments are appended below. In the light of their advice we regret to inform you that we cannot publish your manuscript in Communications Earth & Environment.

You will see that substantive concerns remain around comprehensiveness, overview of recent work, and novelty. Taking these points together with our editorial considerations, we are unable to conclude that your manuscript represents a sufficiently novel and compelling advance over the body of related work in the literature. Unfortunately, these reservations are sufficiently important to preclude publication of this study in Communications Earth & Environment.

We are sorry that we cannot be more positive on this occasion and thank you for the opportunity to consider your work.

Best regards,
---
---


Reviewers' comments:

Reviewer #1 (Remarks to the Author):

The authors have effectively addressed all of my concerns regarding the revised manuscript. Consequently, I have no additional comments to provide at this time.


Reviewer #2 (Remarks to the Author):

While I like the general idea of presenting a short review on the limitations of C sequestration processes, the aspects of soil and agricultural management remain premature. I agree that it is not possible to do so in a few pages, but then I think the authors should rather relate to existing reviews, published in Science and the Nature journals (and sometimes GCB, Ambio, Geoderma), the former partly with several letters to the editors, and to summarize these key findings rather than just listing a few aspects of relevance. The whole discussion ignores the need to maintain yield, to interact with biodiversity, to maintain the water balance etc.

In case the paper is published I urgently recommend the authors to revisit the existing literature since 2016, to follow critical discussions outlined in the above-mentioned journals already, and maybe list all limitations from the bunch of reviews available in a Table rather than just mentioning a few correct but incomplete aspects of soil C sequestration


Reviewer #3 (Remarks to the Author):

Authors have revised the paper well. I have no further comments.

ps- Authors may consider making their title more specific and results oriented but I do not have strong feelings about this and can appreciate that it can be hard to pull one strong result point out of a review. If they can manage it, it will likely improve the discoverability of their paper.
